Proposed 28th Amendment (The Expert Sovereignty Draft)

Section 1: Qualification of Candidacy

No person shall be eligible for the Office of President who has not served a minimum of six years in a cumulative capacity within a federal or state elected office.

Section 2: Protection of Strategic Diplomacy

Candidates for public office and sitting officials are prohibited from participating in public debates or unscripted media events regarding sensitive foreign relations and international trade. All public disclosures regarding these domains must be reviewed by the Department of State to ensure national security and diplomatic stability.

Section 3: Prohibition of Hostile Rhetoric

Public officials shall not issue derogatory or hostile public statements against foreign states. This restriction is lifted only in the event of a formal Declaration of War by Congress or if a state is designated as a "Permanent Adversary" by a two-thirds majority of both Houses.

Section 4: The Binding Expert Veto

The President shall not execute any policy, treaty, or executive order concerning foreign relations or international trade without the prior certification of two independent panels.

Appointment: These panels shall be appointed independently by the Comptroller General (GAO) and the Director of the CBO.

The "Harm Clause": If either panel determines, by a two-thirds vote, that a proposed action will cause "unforeseen and significant harm" to the economic, security, or diplomatic interests of the United States, the action is legally void and cannot be executed.

Review: The findings of these panels shall be binding unless overturned by a three-fourths "super-majority" vote in both the House and the Senate.

Section 5: Enforcement and Accountability

Any President who attempts to bypass the binding determinations of the expert panels, or who bases foreign policy on partisan or personal preferences, shall be deemed to have committed a "High Crime" and shall be subject to immediate impeachment and removal from office.

【人工智能生成合成内容】
创意融合、定稿：萨姆
首创时间：2023年7月10日
重写时间：2026年4月13日
© 萨姆与人智共创 2026
